# This Week in Matrix 2018-12-14

## Fractal Hackfest

Developers and creators of [Fractal], the GNOME Matrix client, have been holding a [Hackfest this week in Seville](https://wiki.gnome.org/Hackfests/FractalDecember2018). Matthew and I caught up with them on video for Matrix Live this week, and discussed the product improvements they've been making and their plans for the next release (due next week!)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/SgyLHi8zZXQ" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Matrix Spec

* **[MSC1466]** merged. [MSC1466 from Erik describes](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/blob/erikj/soft_logout/proposals/1466-soft-logout.md) "Soft Remote Logout", which avoids loss of encryption keys in circumstances of remote logout.
* **[MSC1730]** entered FCP (*final comment period*, the last step before being merged.) [read the proposal](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/blob/rav/proposal/cs_api_in_login/proposals/1730-cs-api-in-login-response.md)

## This Week in Ruma

We don't often get to feature news from [Ruma], but this week there is an updated [This Week in Ruma](https://www.ruma.io/news/this-week-in-ruma-2018-12-09/).

> Ruma is not dead, however, and small improvements have continued over the last year. The Matrix spec has advanced quite a bit and many of the blocking issues for Ruma have been resolved. Rust's maturity is another story. async/await is still under development and this is the most significant blocking issue to progress on Ruma.

## maubot new tooling

[tulir] has been working on tooling for [maubot]:

> maubot got a command-line tool for building plugins and managing maubot instances. I also added some server-side stuff for easy registration of accounts in the management interface using synapse shared secrets, but the UI for that isn't ready.  
> Also, I'm planning on adding some kind of small Matrix client in the management interface for manually managing the added bot clients. That might lead to a separate library that could be used in other projects or embedded in websites.

## mxisd v1.2.1 released, updating recommended

[Max] with a new release of [mxisd]:

> [mxisd] hits [v1.2.1](https://github.com/kamax-matrix/mxisd/releases/tag/v1.2.1) with a new maintenance release, fixing bugs and regressions from v1.2.0. Updating to v1.2.1 is strongly encouraged as v1.3.x will contain breaking changes and will not be a straight-forward update like v1.x has been until now.

## Clients

### Lazy-loading lands in QMatrixClient

[kitsune] has reported that lazy-loading, a Matrix feature that entails only loading room member details as needed, is now in [libQMatrixClient] master.

> reference implementation in Quaternion will follow up

[Black Hat] has been testing the feature in [Spectral], which uses the library, and says there is a 30%-50% reduction in RAM usage at startup.

### Riot Web progress on `/experimental` and v0.17.8 released

Bruno has been working on [`/experimental`](https://riot.im/experimental), and I recommend taking a look at the progress there! The next version of Riot Web is closer than ever.

> Improved read markers now available on /experimental, needs further tweaking though. Brought back community UX on redesign, other small improvements.

[v0.17.8 was released](https://github.com/vector-im/riot-web/releases) with several bugfixes and improvements.

### Riot iOS

Release made with these notes:

> This new version supports the consent of matrix servers terms of service (including GDPR) in the registration flow.  
> It also contains fixes for the "Empty room" bug, the registration issue on iOS 10, etc.

### Riot Android

Release made:

> This new version supports the consent of matrix servers terms of service (including GDPR) in the registration flow.  
> Many bugfixes
> SDK contains KeyBackup

## Servers

### Synapse

A lot of focus on getting debian packages ready for python 3 - this is a blocker for our official python 3 release 0.34.0. Aside from that, finalising some outstanding state resolution behaviour (<https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/1693>) and dusting off event ids as hashes (<https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/issues/1127>.)

### Dendrite

[Brendan]:

> My internal audit of Dendrite is continuing, drawing a more and more precise picture of what's left to fix and implement. I aim to have it over by the end of the year, or the very early days of 2019 at the latest. Folks can track its progress through <https://cloud.abolivier.bzh/index.php/s/qXi2KFjCQk2c6eG>

### modular.im now has **Extra-Large** instances available

Due to demand, [modular.im Hosted Homeservers][modular.im] now has Extra-Large instances available. If you need to service 1,000+ users on a Matrix homeserver, this is the product for you!

### linuxgaming.life homeserver is the number one Matrix homeserver focused on Linux gaming

[swedneck] has continues his work on [linuxgaming.life]:

> I've added some bots, health monitoring, and dimension integration manager to linuxgaming.life, and made the website dark.

The homeserver is open for new registrations.

## That's all I know!

If you'd like see your Matrix-related project featured in this blog post, come chat to us in [#twim:matrix.org], and we'll see you next week!