# This Week in Matrix 2019-02-08

Huge week! Let's go!

## Matrix Live: Riot Redesign Chat (2019-02-08 - Season 3, Episode 13)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Fq3Q50RxQyM" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Riot-web new version coming out so soon. So soon! It looks and runs great, you can use it today at <https://riot.im/develop>. Includes a labs flag for displaying custom tags, which I love. Watch the vid.

## FOSDEM 2019

FOSDEM happened.

* two Matrix-themed packed-room talks
* lots of people coming to chat at the stall to say things like "hi" or "I like Matrix" or "what is Matrix? ... wow that sounds amazing, how can I get involved?"
* 1000s of stickers decentralised out of my bag onto people's laptops

If you didn't yet, take a look at the [summary blogpost, which also contains videos of both talks](https://matrix.org/blog/2019/02/04/matrix-at-fosdem-2019/).

## Synapse 0.99.0

With the release of [Server to Server Spec r0.1](https://matrix.org/docs/spec/server_server/r0.1.0.html), Synapse 0.99.0 is shipping now.

> Synapse 1.0.0 will be compliant with r0.1 and the goal of Synapse 0.99.0 is to act as a stepping stone to Synapse 1.0. Synapse 0.99.0 supports the r0.1 release of the server to server specification, but is compatible with both the legacy Matrix federation behaviour (pre-r0.1) as well as post-r0.1 behaviour, in order to allow for a smooth upgrade across the federation.  
> It is critical that all admins upgrade to 0.99.0 and configure a valid TLS certificate. Admins will have 1 month to do so, after which 1.0.0 will be released and those servers without a valid certificate will no longer be able to federate with >= 1.0.0 servers.

*Please* [read the announcement post](https://matrix.org/blog/2019/02/05/synapse-0-99-0/) and be sure to come and chat in [#synase:matrx.org] if you need help!

## GSOC 2019

[Cadair] has been helping admin this year's GSOC application:

> Matrix.org has applied to be a GSOC (Google Summer of Code) mentoring organisation. If your matrix project has a feature a summer student could tackle and you have the time to mentor them over the summer, why not [add a project idea to our website](http://matrix-org.github.io/gsoc/#/projects) by submitting a PR to [this repo](https://github.com/matrix-org/gsoc/tree/master/_projects). Feel free to ask questions in [#gsoc:matrix.org] as well.

## Latest MSCs

### Approved MSCs

* [[MSC 1504]: Homeserver resource limiting error codes](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/issues/1504)

### In Progress MSCs

* [[MSC 1840]: MSC1840: Typed rooms](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/1840)
* [[MSC 1849]: MSC1849: WIP: Proposal for m.relates_to aggregations](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/1849)
* [[MSC 1866]: Add proposal for invite error code for unsupported room version](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/1866)
* [[MSC 1862]: MSC1862: Presence Capabilities](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/1862)

## matrix-puppet bridges 0.1.0 released, with bidirectional image support

[tom] reports that:

> [matrix-puppet-hangouts] version [0.1.0](https://github.com/matrix-hacks/matrix-puppet-hangouts/releases/tag/0.1.0) has been released!
> This release adds bidirectional (Hangouts -> Matrix and Matrix -> Hangouts) image support!
> It also bumps the version of [matrix-puppet-bridge] (the common core of matrix-puppet-bridge bridges, which handles most of the stuff that's the same between different third-party service bridges, and makes implementing new matrix-puppet-bridge bridges easier) required to 1.16.2, the current latest, for recent bugfixes that improve all [matrix-puppet-bridge] bridges.
> 0.1.0 also requires Python 3.5+, for async. Older versions of python3 won't work. PRs getting python3 < 3.5 working again are welcome.

tom also gives credit to [d3m3vilurr]:

> These changes are also brought to us by [d3m3vilurr], *Honored Hero of Matrix Puppet Bridge*

Praise indeed!

## Bifrost Bridge

[Half-Shot] working on [matrix-bifrost], a matrix bridge for libpurple and xmpp.js:

> This week I have been hard at work fixing a lot of the bugs that have cropped up from bifrost’s rapid development. We now have a docker image available (<https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-bifrost>).

## SMSMatrix now available on F-Droid

A recent favourite of mine, [SMSMatrix] runs a tiny service on your Android device, which forwards SMS messages to and from Matrix rooms. This week [tijder] announced that it's now available on F-Droid:

> SmsMatrix just got released in the F-droid store. Now everybody can install and get updates from the F-droid store. <https://f-droid.org/app/eu.droogers.smsmatrix>

## matrix-media-repo from TravisR now supports .well-known server delegation

[TravisR] reports that:

> [matrix-media-repo] now supports .well-known server delegation (compatible with Synapse 0.99 and r0.1 of the server-server specification), among many other bug fixes and improvements. Actually validating the certificates presented by servers will be implemented alongside Synapse 1.0's requirement for it.

## Dimension from TravisR now supports .well-known server delegation

Similar to [matrix-media-repo] above, [TravisR] has been implementing .well-known server delegation in [Dimension]:

> [Dimension] now supports .well-known server delegation (compatible with Synapse 0.99 and r0.1 of the server-server specification). Actually validating the certificates presented by servers will be implemented alongside Synapse 1.0's requirement for it.

## mxisd v1.3.0-rc.3

[Max]:

> [mxisd] [v1.3.0-rc.3](https://github.com/kamax-matrix/mxisd/releases/tag/v1.3.0-rc.3) is out. This is hopefully the last RC before release, but we would like as much testing as possible! the v1.3 branch is a big enhancement on the previous release with big performance and privacy improvements. It's smaller, faster, stronger and protects you privacy even better than before! You know you want it!

## matrix-docker-ansible-deploy now supports Synapse v0.99

[Slavi] reports that:

> [matrix-docker-ansible-deploy] now supports Synapse v0.99 and should be ready for Synapse v1.0.  
> If you're using the playbook to manage your Matrix server you should upgrade soon.  
> Depending on how you've customized your setup, you may not even have to do anything for the big Synapse v0.99/v1.0 transition, besides upgrading and re-running the playbook. A good place to start is the changelog entry: [Synapse v0.99 support and preparation for Synapse v1.0](https://github.com/spantaleev/matrix-docker-ansible-deploy/blob/46accfdb3c53f0a6b9e5fd7aacf9adaf21172ebc/CHANGELOG.md#synapse-v099-support-and-preparation-for-synapse-v10)

I have been using these playbooks to test my own homeserver deployment and am happy.

## Tchap Android client

[Willem] reports that:

> After seeing a demo at FOSDEM of [Tchap][tchap android], the app the French government uses to access their Matrix network, I decided to try to get it to work as a general-purpose Matrix client. The app uses email and password to log in, and infers the homeserver address from the homeserver name. So to get it to work, I had to patch the app and write a little proxy so it gets the proper homeserver (and optionally identity server) from an email address.
> A patched version of Tchap can be found at <https://github.com/14mRh4X0r/tchap-android>, code for the proxy at <https://git.snt.utwente.nl/14mRh4X0r/tchap-proxy>. At the moment it's very crude, and images/files don't work since the virus scan API is unimplemented, but at least it can be used outside the French government. 🙂

## Riot iOS

From the team:

> * Still iterating on key backup UX
> * Fix various share extension bugs (image sending failure, links share as text, etc…)

## Riot Android

> * Still iterating on the key backup UX, changes concern Riot and the Matrix SDK
> * Valere has worked on Riot Android Notifications, we intend to merge this work on develop at the beginning of the next Sprint.
> * RiotX: no update this week due to François being out of the office

## .NET SDK

[Half-Shot], working on "not bridging":

> I opened up the [.NET SDK] project for the first time in two years and revived it to just about work with a r0.4.0 home server. Its now based on .NET core 2.0.

[Related .NET lovin'](https://twitter.com/migueldeicaza/status/1093148021980889088).

## Spectral, soon for KDE Plasma Mobile

[Black Hat] is clearing:

> I'm porting [Spectral] to KDE Plasma Mobile with Kirigami framework. This provides full convergence and mobile support.

Some progress pictures below, desktop and mobile version.

## Preparing for Synapse on OpenBSD

[Linda] has been making progress on a project to get Synapse running on OpenBSD, and to that end has been preparing and improving the dependencies that we take for granted on Linux. To summarise the current status:

> This week I've been porting Synapse's dependencies to OpenBSD `-current` distribution. There is no port yet for Synapse in OpenBSD.  
> Ports missing from OpenBSD `6.4` for Synapse's dependencies were:
>
> * `py-frozendict`: ok'd, waiting...
> * `py-unpaddedbase64`: TBD
> * `py-canonicaljson`: TBD
> * `py-signedjson`: TBD
> * `py-treq`: WIP (this will take a while, lots of dependencies)
> * `py-daemonize`: ok'd, waiting...
> * `py-pymacaroons`: TBD
> * `py-phonenumbers`: `8.10.4` done, waiting to be imported...
> * `py-prometheus_client` done, needs to be tested/imported...
> * `coturn`: TBD, maybe?
>
>waiting = usually waiting for an OpenBSD developer to "ok" and import
>
> Of those, `py-phonenumbers` was added to OpenBSD `-snapshots` (`-current`) distribution. `py-phonenumbers` (?) and `py-service_identity` received updates to ports. `py-prometheus_client`, `py-daemonize` and `py-frozendict` are ported ready and waiting to be given \"ok\" at OpenBSD's `ports@` mailing list.  
> There is [an unofficial up-to-date Synapse port exists at GitHub](https://github.com/jasperla/openbsd-wip/tree/master/net/synapse) maintained by someone else, which I've not yet tested. (At glance, I can take a guess the `devel/tz` port may not be required.)  
> (`coturn` doesn't have a port yet, may have to look at it later.)

## c u l8r

Phew! That was a lot! See you next week, and if you have a project you'd like to see featured in This Week in Matrix, come chat to us in [#twim:matrix.org]!