# This Week in Matrix 2019-02-22

## Matrix Live S03E15 - Push To Talk and XMPP Gatewaying!

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/mpd-pcr2kKc" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## nheko_reborn roadmap

[red_sky] has continued to work on nheko, and shared a general roadmap in [#nheko-reborn:matrix.org]:

> The remainder of 0.6.x is expected to be bug fixes. This includes bug fixes in mtxclient as well as nheko.  
> 0.7.0 will be the next feature release. The end goal here is to add some of the capabilities that people have been requesting, and other things that people haven't been requesting.  
> AFTER 0.7.0 releases, I will then focus on updating the encryption to include more thn just text mesages.

## libQMatrixClient project, Quaternion

[kitsune] has been writing the codes this week, [Quaternion] now supports room upgrades and more:

> Master branch of [Quaternion] can now store access token in your secure storage/keychain, better integrating into frameworks of GNOME and KDE, as well as macOS and Windows.  
> Also, you can see the room version and upgrade rooms in Quaternion (just like Matthew said on FOSDEM ;) ) - this feature is enabled by [libQMatrixClient], so other clients are welcome to support room versions/upgrades too!
>
> All this is within the work on the upcoming release of libQMatrixClient 0.5 and Quaternion 0.0.9.4 - stay tuned!

Oh we will. [Spectral] support for these new features when?

## Synapse

Neil:

> With all the interest generated through Riot 1.0 we’ve seen a surge of new and returning users on matrix.org. So we’ve spent much of the week investing in stability and performance. We’ll ship a new point release (0.99.2) next week.  
> Once again a **big flashing advert** that Synapse admins should no longer be using self-signed certificates for their federation API. **Synapse 1.0 is scheduled in early March and will not accept self signed certs** - so servers that do not update will lose the ability to federate with 1.0 servers. Updating your certs is straight forward, see our guide [and FAQ](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/blob/master/docs/MSC1711_certificates_FAQ.md) for more info.

## Matrix Ruby SDK

Ananace has continued his work on [Ruby Matrix SDK]:

> Just tagged and pushed a new version (0.0.4) of the Ruby SDK, since I've completely forgotten to do that for a while now.

What's new?

> A whole bunch of small stuff I did, mostly just additional exposed methods and parameters, and some fixed issues as well. I did add support for HS URL discovery using both SRV and .well-known though, which I think is probably the largest new feature.

As if all this wasn't enough, a room on Matrix!

> Created a discussion room for the Ruby SDK - since it seems like there are now people who have actually used it apart from me; [#ruby-matrix-sdk:kittenface.studio]

## synapse-netcore-workers

A project rarely seen has recieved a lot of attention this week!

[Half-Shot] has been working on federation workers:

> I've been working on a federation worker for synapse written in .NET to improve outgoing federation performance. It's still pretty barebones, but progress can be followed at <https://github.com/turt2live/synapse-netcore-workers/pull/5>

[TravisR] too has been working on the project:

> I'm also working on my own netcore workers project by setting up an appservice sender. It's also very barebones (doesn't even send a transaction), but is being tracked here: <https://github.com/turt2live/synapse-netcore-workers/pull/6>  
> Also, if you'd like to follow along with the project from the comfort of Matrix, head on over to [#synapse-netcore-workers:t2bot.io]

## koma project

[yuforia] is working on [koma][koma-library]:

> Fix txnId generation that made sending messages unreliable. Work around a bug in OkHttp that crashed the dispatcher thread when the server certificate was not received in time.

Good thing to fix! Here's a screenshot of [Continuum-desktop], the client from koma:

yuforia continues:

> Fix text processing in the bot avecho, feel free to try it out in [#koma-im:matrix.org]

## mxisd v1.3.1 released

[Max]:

> [mxisd] [v1.3.1](https://github.com/kamax-matrix/mxisd/releases/tag/v1.3.1) is out. It is a maintenance release that fixes a set of regressions following the changes in v1.3.0 to massively improve performance. If you haven't updated to the v1.3 branch, now is the time!

## Construct progresses toward Matrix 1.0 Spec

> Over the past three weeks Construct has made rapid progress with covering the Matrix 1.0 specification!
>
> Last week we implemented room version 1 and room version 2 authentication rules.
> This week we implemented device support and management, and have nearly wrapped up successful End-To-End Encryption testing.
> The Construct is a community-driven server implementation written in C++ for maximum performance. To all experienced C++ developers out there: we need your contributions to accelerate and test the 1.0 release!
>
> Please check out <https://github.com/matrix-construct/construct> and stop by [#test:zemos.net] / [#zemos-test:matrix.org] today!

## uMatriks planning

[mariogrip] [announced his plans for going ahead](https://github.com/uMatriks/uMatriks/issues/71) with [uMatriks]:

> * Clean up c++ code
> * Make the c++ code less heavy, we should focus on speed
> * Offload js code to direct qml binding, with this i mean instead of having ablock if-else code that modifies qml object that runs on component load, wedo this directly in qml: see 0a800fc and https://github.com/uMatriks/uMatriksblob/0a800fcdc0af4fa2e08526dbff88e06bcb591779/uMatriks/componentsChatItem.qml as an example for a cleaner code
> * Make all ui depended calls async, we should NEVER block ui
> * Offload heavy js logic to c++
> * Cleaner UI, with less crust
> * Async everything
> * Merge our WIP call support
> * Finish impl of call support (maybe move to a standalone webrtc module)
> * Slowly start moving to QQC2
> * Implement reply
> * Implement sending of media

## Riot Android

> * Finalising version and delivery of Riot 0.8.23 on the PlayStore.
> * RiotX: testing library to render events in the timeline.

## Debian packaging

[andrewsh]:

> Since Debian has entered soft freeze, updates to Synapse have been slow lately, but nevertheless we’ve got 0.99.1.1 in

## matrix-archive-keyring

[Linda] is continuing to prepare [matrix-archive-keyring]:

> `matrix-archive-keyring` (from last week's TWIM) is ready to be uploaded to Debian. Attempting to get it uploaded to `unstable` right now as I speak.

## Riot breadcrumbs

We [linked to the annoucement last week](https://medium.com/@RiotChat/the-big-1-0-68fa7c6050be), and have been using it for even longer, but somehow I missed a great labs feature that shipped with Riot 1.0: "room breadcrumbs", which you can enable from the Labs page of Riot settings. This gives you a series of quick links with the history of rooms you were most recently in. So if you're like me, clicking between rooms all day, you can get where you're going a little faster.

## mautrix-whatsapp

There is no big news about mautrix-whatsapp this week, other than that I installed it on my own server and found that it works really *really* well. I'd love to switch to this as a main interface for my less-decentralised friends, but like others, I've been stung by [this issue in an upstream project](https://github.com/Rhymen/go-whatsapp/issues/98). If there are go-fans reading (and I know there are), I wonder if it's an issue which can be fixed?

## Around the Web

A tidy little article on "non-centralised" applications. Article by [Jontheniceguy] helps pin down some of the terminology around decentralisation and the like. https://jon.sprig.gs/blog/post/1041

[joenas] wrote an article on configuring Synapse with Traefik: [Matrix homeserver (Synapse v0.99.1.1) with Traefik](https://jonnev.se/matrix-homeserver-synapse-v0-99-1-1-with-traefik/)

## That's it

All good things must come to an end - and here we are!

Matrix is getting a lot of attention recently (has it been on the front page of HN every day this week? I remember that I used to be excited seeing that happen), and seeing a lot of growth as well.

If you have something to say here, something to add, come chat to us in [#twim:matrix.org] - I love that this is a supportive and engaged project ecosystem, so come share what you have!