# 2018-07-13

Welcome to TWIM for Friday the 13th! Nothing too scary, but lots of client updates and news.

## Quaternion

[kitsune]:

> [Quaternion] has gained a new `/html` command that allows one to send raw HTML. Note that an actually displayed HTML subset entirely depends on the receiving client; no HTML validation or sanitation is done; a plaintext version is automatically created by stripping all the HTML tags.

## neo

[f0x] is working on [Neo] again:

> added emotes, working localecho and `/rainbow`

<p><font color="#ff5500">r</font><font color="#ffaa00">a</font><font color="#ffff00">i</font><font color="#aaff00">n</font><font color="#55ff00">b</font><font color="#00ff00">o</font><font color="#00ff55">w</font><font color="#00ffaa">s</font><font color="#00ffff"> </font><font color="#00aaff">:</font><font color="#0055ff">D</font></p>

## matrix-logger

A useful tool from [CromFr] for anyone who wants to archive logs of rooms.

> I wrote a small matrix "client" for logging messages in joined rooms, and store them in a format very similar to Weechat logs.
> [Source code (Rust)](https://gitlab.com/CromFr/matrix-logger/tree/master) [Binary release (x86_64 windows & linux)](https://gitlab.com/CromFr/matrix-logger/tags)
> Please open issues if encounter any bug or need specific features.\nAlso I'm new to rust, so any review / advices would be appreciated :)

## Matrique client progress

[Black Hat] has been working on [Matrique], and it's looking really good! Screenshot below.

> Matrique now has support for sending/receiving messages (plaintext, markdown, HTML, rainbow), emotes and notices. It also supports receiving images, videos, files and states. I am still working on file receiving functions.

![matrique-client.png]

I love that all clients include rainbow messages.

## fluffychat for Ubuntu Touch

New to me, [fluffychat] is a "Simple Matrix Messenger for [Ubuntu Touch]". The design philosophy for this app is focused on simplicity, and the hope is for it to complement [uMatriks], another Ubuntu Touch client.

> Why are you not just contributing to uMatriks?
> uMatriks is great and it's superb, that someone has created a Matrix Client for Ubuntu Touch. But sometimes you have a so detailed vision of a user interface, which you want to implement, that you can not just contribute to an existing project. However, I would like to work with the uMatriks developers together. We could use the same push gateway for example.

![fluffychat-client.png]

## Riot/Web

* Welcomed Bruno onto the Riot/Web team! (and said farewell to Luke)
* Lots of bug blitzing
* Riot 0.16 due next week, with Jitsi-everywhere (at last) and Slate for composer.
* We now have an end-to-end test harness (via puppeteer!) at last - being applied at first to fix onboarding bugs.
* Lazy loading members in progress

## Riot/Mobile

* Major perf work ongoing
* Decoupling members from state...
* ...and then lazyloading members.

## Synapse 0.32.2 available

[v0.32.2](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/releases/tag/v0.32.2) is now available, which includes the `m.room.server_acl` security feature discussed in a [previous blog post](https://matrix.org/blog/2018/07/06/security-update-synapse-0-32-0/).

* If you're not running 0.32, please upgrade!!
* Python 3 progresses!
* Quite a lot of ops work to keep matrix.org alive. Status page coming soon! (We promise!!)
* Looking at metrics and quotas for better experiences on limited-resource homeservers.

## Spec

* State res fix
* Version bump
* Lots of omission PRs landing
* [TravisR] S2S work
* Work on both IS & AS API too
* [Uhoreg] work - .well-known, and 3pid logins
* Some internal discussions about improving the proposal process; particularly having a 5 day 'final comment period' similar to Rust's. Once we've got alignment within the core spec team we'll MSC it.

## Dendrite

* [Anoa] & [APwhitehat] continue to blitz onwards on AS and federation
* thirdparty protocol support for application services in the works.
* continued progress on getting the AS query APIs supported. PR for /alias still being reviewed, PR for /users happened this week and now being reviewed
* Timestamp massaging for application services ready and in review
* APWhiteHat did a good chunk on federation, now migrating to supporting the various EDUs, starting with m.typing events.
* ...running out of low hanging fruit...

## AS

* [matrix-appservice-irc] 0.9.1 is here with perf improvements!
* Lots of work on trying to make it start up sooner

## E2E

* UISI stats
* Device list syncing
* Encrypted backup

## Debian Packages

[andrewsh] has packaged [synapse 0.32.2 for Debian](https://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=matrix-synapse)

[uhoreg] has packaged [quaternion 0.0.9.2 for Debian](https://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=quaternion)

## That's all folks

Watch Matrix Live below, and see you next week!

