# TWIM 2018-07-05

## matrix-synapse for Docker and k8s

[Ananace] has been working on configuration files for Synapse:

> So now the K8s stuff has configuration examples for Synapse + Riot + mxisd + coturn, all runnable on your very own Kubernetes cluster - though with some manual tinkering required at the moment.
> I've updated the Kubernetes configuration examples to include everything you need for a full Matrix stack; Synapse + Riot + mxisd - using the built-in K8s ingress
> And + coturn of course, not to forget

Take a look: <https://github.com/ananace/matrix-synapse>

## mautrix-telegram is now the primary Telegram bridge on t2bot.io

[TravisR]:

> [t2bot.io](https://t2bot.io) is now running [mautrix-telegram] as the primary Telegram bridge. Feel free to join the other 10k users on the bridge and bridge your own Telegram group to your room: <https://t2bot.io/telegram/>.

We should give a big shout of thanks to [tulir] for his consistent and continued work on mautrix-telegram.

## Docker images for the matrix spec

[uhoreg] has released dockerfiles to build the spec docs into html. This is going to be useful for watching the spec development accelerate over the summer.

> For Docker fans: I've created a couple of Docker images (<https://hub.docker.com/r/uhoreg/matrix-doc-build/> and <https://hub.docker.com/r/uhoreg/matrix-doc-watch/> ) for building the Matrix spec HTML.

## Debian packaging

[andrewsh]:

> I'm packaging Circle IRC/Matrix client for Debian and backporting synapse to stable.

## Google Summer of Code

The second evaluation for [GSOC 2018] is nearly here, so we have some updates from the student participants:

## [apwhitehat] is working on [Dendrite]

> Dendrite updates for TWIM (before GSoC 2nd eval):
> This month we've got most of the federation APIs working on Dendrite. These are:
> - State APIs [#486](https://github.com/matrix-org/dendrite/pull/486)
> - Get missing events API [#516](https://github.com/matrix-org/dendrite/pull/516)
> - Query user devices [#498](https://github.com/matrix-org/dendrite/pull/498)
>
> We still need to figure out pagination for backfill API.
>
> On applications services, we've got a lot of APIs working, thanks to [anoa]. Authentication now acknowledges App services, though lot of other stuff is under review. I am eagerly waiting for it to land.

On the same topic, [anoa] says:

> We've had a PR from fadeAce/dirichlet_zby for the server-side implementation of end-to-end encryption support in [Dendrite]. Will be looking forward to seeing that land as well.

There is an explanation of the endpoints required for this [in the CS API docs](https://matrix.org/docs/spec/client_server/r0.3.0.html#end-to-end-encryption).

## Zil0 is working on E2E in the Python SDK

Sounds like [Zil0] has been going great guns on the [matrix-python-sdk]:

> Encryption in matrix-python-sdk should now work fairly well.
> The biggest parts to write were device tracking and key persistence. All the PRs are now opened, and the code is fully tested and documented.
> It is possible to try out the implementation before it lands by refering to instructions written here.
> Also a special thanks to [poljar] for some great work on new Olm bindings, which allowed the project not to get stuck with packaging issues.
> Further work include encrypted attachments, device verification and key sharing.

## koma, kotlin client

Last week I mistakenly referred to [Koma] as being written in Rust, then Java. This was all incorrect, though being written in Kotlin, Koma does run on the JVM and use JavaFx.

[sideboat]:

> This week in [koma], we are improving the room info window used for viewing and editing the name, icon, and aliases of a room. In the upcoming release, user power levels will be taken into account, so that editing options will only be shown when the user has enough power.

![koma-room-info.png]

## Synapse

Neil says:

> We've just cut the next release candidate for Synapse: 0.32.0rc1.
> The upcoming release focuses almost entirely on security; fixing federation bugs and adding new features for countering abuse.

## Riot

This week we welcome Bruno to the Riot team, he's off and away working on getting integration tests set up.

Otherwise:

* More work on the Jitsi integration
* More work troubleshooting E2E failures
* [v0.15.6](https://github.com/vector-im/riot-web/releases/tag/v0.15.6) and [v0.15.7-rc.1](https://github.com/vector-im/riot-web/releases/tag/v0.15.7-rc.1) now available

## Self-reference

This week was only six days long, but to make up for it we'll have a bumper eight day edition next time! Come join us in [#TWIM:matrix.org] and share what you've made.