# TODO GDPR

# Client Updates

## mtxclient E2E progress

Big E2E progress from [mujx], developer of the [nheko] client on his
project [mtxclient].
[As of this week](https://github.com/mujx/mtxclient/commit/7e522df71c804cbc04f38007c3958ebbb56815d3),
mxtclient is able to decrypt group events. When writing (that is, sending
encrypted messages) is complete, the idea is to migrate this work back to nheko,
though mujx points out this library could be used in any client.

## Fractal

Back to work after the [Hackfest][Fractal Hackfest 2018], [Fractal] have
[released version 0.1.30](https://gitlab.gnome.org/World/fractal/commit/7a26544df04e7bf42cf41bbf8cb95821873963c4),
featuring:
* Translations support
* Number of members in the room in the members button
* File storage configuration support
* Gold and Silver tags for admins and moderatos

[Some coverage](https://medium.com/we-distribute/fractal-is-a-new-messaging-app-for-the-gnome-desktop-powered-by-matrix-a4f219cb1095)
of the [Fractal] design thinking from last week, nothing new jsut a signal
boost.

## gomuks

[tulir] came in with some late breaking news about [gomuks], the terminal client
written in go. New features:
* A fancy quick room switcher by [Evidlo]
* A few basic UI options (hide user/room lists)
* Plaintext view to be able to click long links and such
* Fixed some bugs


# Bridging

## John Spriggs bridging video
[JonTheNiceGuy] produced a helpful video describing how to use bridges for IRC,
Slack and Telegram, showing the difference between the different bridges. I
found this to be really clear and well-paced for following the many practical 
details of bridging. Watch here: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZNEzgYRLj8g>

## Discord bridge

[anoa] and [half-shot] have been working on the [matrix-appservice-discord]
bridge:
>"finished edit passing between Discord and Matrix, as well as support for
discord's custom emojis (though UX is a bit manual until
[TravisR's proposal][MSC1256] goes through 😇)"

## matrix-puppet-facebook-1to1-fixer from Brendan

[Brendan] shared a project he's been working on this week: 
[matrix-puppet-facebook-1to1-fixer](https://github.com/babolivier/matrix-puppet-facebook-1to1-fixer).
This project fixes a UI issue Brendan had with the
[Facebook Messenger Bridge][matrix-puppet-facebook], namely that activity in
1:1 rooms was not clear enough.
>This small tool will take the local part of the room ID created by the
Matrix<>Facebook Messenger bot once the friend has joined it, identify th
friend, and grab their avatar and display name to set the room's.



## mautrix-telegram

Lots of progress on [mautrix-telegram] this lately including v0.2.0 RC.
As reported by [tulir]:
* A dockerfile by [jcgruenhage]
* Option to whitelist/blacklist automatic bridging of specific chats
* Fixed many bugs

## matrix-appservice-sms
[eta] has been working on [matrix-appservice-sms] this week:
> I have managed to do the first phase of a massive refactor that makes it way
> more reliable (temporarily store SMS in the database before delivery)
> 
> this makes it more resilient to synapse hiccups, as well as general failures

# Other Projects

## matrixboard, from betz

[betz] runs the <https://hackerspaces.be/> matrix server and has this
week, inbetween repairing his Synapse install, been working on a project called
[matrixboard]. This tool is used to output the last five messages from a given
room to displayed as HTML, the idea being to display output from a specific room
as a website widget. You can see an example using [#matrix-dev]
[here](http://matrix.hackerspaces.be:1337/!XqBunHwQIXUiqCaoxq:matrix.org?color=green).


## opsdroid room state connector

[SolarDrew] implemented a
[database module](https://github.com/SolarDrew/database-matrix)for [opsdroid]
to allow Matrix room state to be used to persist chat bot memory. (Suggestion
apparently came from [Cadair], the human not
[the place](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cadair_Idris).)

The idea of using the room state to encapsulate bot data per-room was well
received, discussion in [#TWIM:matrix.org] suggests this is an estabilished
practice for some developers.

## matrix-python-sdk

No general GSOC round-up this week, [&Adam] shared the news that GSOC-student
[Zil0]'s first PR towards E2E in [matrix-python-sdk] landed on master. These PRs
are working from efforts previously contributed by [pik].

## Ruma

Work continues in the Ruma space. This week saw the release of 

* [ruma-events]
  [0.10.0](https://github.com/ruma/ruma-events/releases/tag/0.10.0):
  ruma-events contains Serializable Rust types for the events in the Matrix
  specification. 0.10.0 sees a major update with code provided by [mujx], and
  contains many breaking changes.
* [ruma-api-macros]
  [0.2.2](https://github.com/ruma/ruma-api-macros/releases/tag/0.2.2),
  and [ruma-client-api]] is also updated to use the new macro.

## f0x account migration helper

[f0x] has started work on a tool to help migrate accounts - including across
homeservers. Right now he's working on the GUI, but check out progress at 
<https://github.com/f0x52/matrix-migrate>.

## DSN Traveller by Florian

[Florian](https://matrix.to/#/@florianjacob:matrix.org) reports:
> As part of my master's thesis, I wrote the DSN Traveller bot, which is
crawling the matrix federation to measure the shape and size of the matrix
network, and how distributed it currently is. The bot is already in a smaller
number of rooms for testing, and will join the remaining rooms over the next
days. All details at <https://dsn-traveller.dsn.scc.kit.edu/>, room at [#dsn-traveller:dsn-traveller.dsn.scc.kit.edu].

# spec roundup
The [Matrix Spec Change Proposals] list is populated, popular, and under
discussion at [#matrix-spec:matrix.org]. There are multiple 
[TravisR] is calling for attention on
[MSC1256]: "Custom emoji
and sticker packs in matrix"

# New Rooms
* [notafile] alerted us to [#synapse-py3:matrix.org] a room for discussions
  specific to the python3 work on synapse.
* [#dsn-traveller:dsn-traveller.dsn.scc.kit.edu] to discuss the DSN Traveller,
  as mentioned above.
* [brainblasted] introduced [#book-talk:disroot.org], "For discussing
  literature, meaning, and if the movie lives up to the book"
* [CromFr] shared [#lebistrot:matrix.org], "a french room for talking about
  everything or nothing. Venez dire bonjour!"


# GSOC
Last week I promised an update on the state of the various GSOC projects in the
Matrix Ecosystem. There is activity happening but other than what's been
discussed above we'll wait a week or two for more detailed updates.

# TODO debian package 0.30.0
[andrewsh]