# This Week in Matrix 2019-01-18

[kitsune] reports that:

> [libQMatrixClient] 0.4.2 has been released, fixing a security issue (the library could be tricked into altering the local room state by fake state events - those without state_key). The master branch of the library is updated as well - it is strongly recommended to update to either 0.4.2 or master, depending on which branch you live on.

[alphapapa] reports that:

> [matrix-client.el] can now send typing notifications.

[tom] reports that:

> [matrix-puppet-slack] v1.10.0 has been released, thanks to [Cadair] and (once again!) [d3m3vilurr]!  
> v1.10.0 fixes Matrix-to-Slack image upload, and no longer sends markdown-formatted @-mention links in the plaintext body of Matrix events; instead, it uses plaintext username the way text-only clients traditionally have it.  
> The version bump is also the project's 100th commit, and I've updated the [supported feature checklist in the README](https://github.com/matrix-hacks/matrix-puppet-slack#features-and-roadmap) to paint a more comprehensive picture of what is and isn't supported, and link out to the GitHub Issues for some of the unsupported features, in hopes of making life easier for users and encouraging contributions.

[SolarDrew] reports that:

> [opsdroid's Matrix connector][opsdroid] is now a core part of the library rather than an external addition. This should open up a lot of cool possibilities for doing fancy stuff with bots on matrix. Many thanks to [Cadair] for helping with this.

[Maximus] reports that:

> [mxisd] has a new alpha release: v1.3.0-alpha.2 - Fixes a set of issues from alpha.1 and is now close to v1.2.2 stability. If you are already on alpha.1,  update is highly recommended.

[Slavi] reports that:

> It's a New Year and there have been a lot of improvements to the [matrix-docker-ansible-deploy] playbook:
> 
> * there's now support for [importing an existing Postgres database](https://github.com/spantaleev/matrix-docker-ansible-deploy/blob/fef6c052c34404a15985a87ad9593596c349cd04/docs/importing-postgres.md), which should make it easier for people with another setup to migrate over.
> * there's now support for [manually-managed and self-signed certificates](https://github.com/spantaleev/matrix-docker-ansible-deploy/blob/fef6c052c34404a15985a87ad9593596c349cd04/docs/configuring-playbook-ssl-certificates.md), in addition to the Let's Encrypt support we've always had
> * the playbook now uses a much better (20x smaller, faster) riot-web Docker image ([avhost/docker-matrix-riot](https://hub.docker.com/r/avhost/docker-matrix-riot/) -> [bubuntux/riot-web](https://hub.docker.com/r/bubuntux/riot-web/)). At least until [vector-im/riot-web#7771](https://github.com/vector-im/riot-web/pull/7771) gets merged and official images become available.
> * [completely redone](https://github.com/spantaleev/matrix-docker-ansible-deploy/blob/fef6c052c34404a15985a87ad9593596c349cd04/CHANGELOG.md#bc-break-mxisd-configuration-changes) way of generating mxisd configuration, letting people unleash the full power of mxisd without us having to explicitly add support for new features
> * [mxisd] 1.3.0-ready. We default to a stable mxisd release still (1.2.2), but people can try the much-improved 1.3.0 alpha releases even now (e.g. `matrix_mxisd_docker_image: "kamax/mxisd:1.3.0-alpha.2"`).
> * we now utilize [mxisd's User Directory Search feature](https://github.com/kamax-matrix/mxisd/blob/4185b644b7b69af36bb1fdc81976a36590b1b97f/docs/features/directory.md) to augment the results coming from Synapse
> * the playbook has been [split into multiple roles](https://github.com/spantaleev/matrix-docker-ansible-deploy/blob/fef6c052c34404a15985a87ad9593596c349cd04/CHANGELOG.md#splitting-the-playbook-into-multiple-roles) (one role per component) and the [roles have been made independent of one another](https://github.com/spantaleev/matrix-docker-ansible-deploy/blob/fef6c052c34404a15985a87ad9593596c349cd04/CHANGELOG.md#bc-break-making-the-playbooks-roles-more-independent-of-one-another). People who want to re-use our roles in their own playbooks can now more-easily do so.
> * even more components have become optional and can now be turned off completely (coturn, mailer)
> 
> Lots of thanks go to [Maximus], [jcgruenhage] and [Cadair] for helping out!

[kitsune] reports that:

> For those who want to help testing [Quaternion] or just can't wait to the next release, we now have CI builds collected at bintray: <https://bintray.com/qmatrixclient/ci/Quaternion>. Linux and macOS are already there, and Windows binaries will also be available any day soon.

uforia reports that:

made some minor changes to continuum to make the GUI more intuitive. Now when there are no joined rooms, buttons for joining or creating rooms are shown instead of an empty list. And when there are issues with syncing or syncing takes longer than usual, a status bar with options is shown.

Rick reports that:

Thanks for the reminder Ben. Modular now has a migration tool for those migrating away from HipChat - Linked from the migration tools page, here -- https://www.modular.im/tools/account-migration

tulir reports that:

I've been working on a new Go TUI library for gomuks: https://github.com/tulir/mauview
Still not quite sure if it's a good idea, but at least the input area component is very nice. It should also make it easier to add more fancy stuff like html tables and selecting messages (for replying/redacting)

andrewsh reports that:

the most recent synapse using Python 3 available in both stretch-backports and Debian testing

Half-Shot reports that:

Discord bridge v0.4.0 is out now, nothing new since rc1 because it was that good.

Black Hat reports that:

I am prototyping a Matrix client SDK in Dart. It will target Flutter (Android, Fuchsia and iOS), web (AngularDart or other) and Dart VM.

Foks reports that:

Neo v4: Iris is coming up, focusing on design first. It will be based on React, and the matrix js sdk
I didn't plan ahead enough with old Neo (v3), so it became a bit of a clobbered togeather mess, which I'm trying to prevent this time around
https://git.lain.haus/f0x/iris

Foks reports that:

neo.png
